README.md, before:

# KNV Address Organizer

## What
This project serves as an example workflow for organizing addresses generated from [KNV](https://www.knv-zeitfracht.de) (german wholesale book distributor) and saving them in [CSV files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values). It's possible to convert exported contacts from within [`pcbis.de -> fitbis`](https://pcbis.de) (called *Stammadressen*) as well as extracting them from invoices.


## Why
We needed a solution that's flexible enough for all employees to work with (who are using [Kubuntu](https://kubuntu.org) which helps) while being easily maintainable through the [CLI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).


## Getting started

### TL;DR
Simply run `bash setup.bash` and you're set.

### Manual setup
Create a virtual environment with `python3` and activate it:

```text
    virtualenv -p python3 .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
```

Now, install all python packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt` - or just [`doit`](https://pydoit.org) as its the only dependency at the moment: `pip install doit`.


## Usage
With `doit list` you'll be presented with available tasks:

```text
$ doit list
backup    Backs up main file
extract   Extracts addresses & formats them
filter    Filters uniques out of main file
merge     Merges lists into main file
prepare   Prepares addresses from customer data & invoices
print     Prints CSV tables from main file
restore   Restores main file
sort      Sorts main file
split     Splits main file into lists
```


## Troubleshooting
Especially when extracting outdated information, at some point or another challenges will arise:

### Scraping invoices
First of all, exporting those invoices may take some time. When we decided to do this, there were over 8000 records, going back to 2010. `fitbis` isn't of much help there, limiting us to 50 records per page ..

Along the way, we will need the help of our browser's 'Developer Tools' (which are included in [Firefox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools) as well as [Chrome](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools)).

While the whole customer database (*Stammadressen*) may be exported in one fell swoop (`Weitere Funktionen -> Stammadressen -> Anzeigen`, then `Funktionen -> Alle Stammadressen exportieren`), this doesn't apply to invoices - but were there's a will there's a way:

1. Log into `pcbis.de`, then `Fitbis -> Fakturierung -> Anzeigen` will show you the ten most recent invoices.
2. Open the dropdown for entries per page (*Einträge pro Seite*), right-click on one of those numbers (eg '50') and select `Inspect Element` (Firefox) `Inspect` (Chrome).
3. Looking at the selected `li` element's `onclick` attribute, we notice the following: `setInputFieldDynamic( 'comtitlesPerPageHeader', '50','50')`.
4. Double-click the `onclick` attribute and change both integers to something >= the total number of invoices (eg '10000').
5. Wait for it .. boom! Save the page with `CTRL + S`.

### One size doesn't fit all
We never intended to release this, so think of this project as a boilerplate to get you started.


## Roadmap
Currently, the initial database was created *before* the decision to release this was made - so this is somewhat incomplete. Address organization already works the way it should ..  but these features are planned:

- [] Additional comments
- [x] Data extraction for `pcbis.de`
- [x] Tutorial on downloading invoices from `pcbis.de`
- [] Diffing CSV files from employees, adding changes automagically
- [] More modular setup (rules about converting phone numbers, cities, wrong categories ..)

:copyright: Fundevogel Kinder- und Jugendbuchhandlung

Commit message:

Merging tasks `prepare` & `extract` Fixes #1

README.md, after:

# KNV Address Organizer

## What
This project serves as an example workflow for organizing addresses generated from [KNV](https://www.knv-zeitfracht.de) (german wholesale book distributor) and saving them in [CSV files](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values). It works with customer information that has been exported with [`pcbis.de`](https://pcbis.de) (called *Stammadressen*) and invoices issued by `Fitbis` as well.


## Why
We needed a solution that's flexible enough for all employees to work with (who are using [Kubuntu](https://kubuntu.org) which helps) while being easily maintainable through the [CLI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).


## Getting started

### Quick setup
Simply run `bash setup.bash` and you're set.

### Manual setup
Create a virtual environment with `python3` and activate it:

```text
    virtualenv -p python3 .venv
    source .venv/bin/activate
```

Now, install all python packages with `pip install -r requirements.txt` - or just [`doit`](https://pydoit.org) as its the only dependency at the moment: `pip install doit`.


## Usage
With `doit list` you'll be presented with available tasks:

```text
$ doit list
backup    Backs up main file
extract   Extracts addresses from source files
filter    Filters uniques out of main file
merge     Merges lists into main file
print     Prints CSV tables from main file
restore   Restores main file
sort      Sorts main file
split     Splits main file into lists
```

After retrieving `Stammadressen.xls` (customer data) and `Fakturierung.hmtl` (invoices), put them in their respective directory inside `src` and run `doit extract` - after that, it's up to you (pull requests are welcome :fox:).


## Troubleshooting
Especially when extracting outdated information, at some point or another challenges will arise:

### Scraping invoices
First of all, exporting those invoices may take some time. When we decided to do this, there were over 8000 records, going back to 2010. `Fitbis` isn't of much help there, limiting us to 50 records per page ..

Along the way, we will need the help of our browser's 'Developer Tools' (which are included in [Firefox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools) as well as [Chrome](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools)).

While the whole customer database (*Stammadressen*) may be exported in one fell swoop (`Weitere Funktionen -> Stammadressen -> Anzeigen`, then `Funktionen -> Alle Stammadressen exportieren`), this doesn't apply to invoices - but were there's a will there's a way:

1. Log into `pcbis.de`, then `Fitbis -> Fakturierung -> Anzeigen` will show you the ten most recent invoices.
2. Open the dropdown for entries per page (*Einträge pro Seite*), right-click on one of those numbers (eg '50') and select `Inspect Element` (Firefox) `Inspect` (Chrome).
3. Looking at the selected `li` element's `onclick` attribute, we notice the following: `setInputFieldDynamic( 'comtitlesPerPageHeader', '50','50')`.
4. Double-click the `onclick` attribute and change both integers to something >= the total number of invoices (eg '10000').
5. Wait for it .. boom! Save the page with `CTRL + S`.

### One size doesn't fit all
We never intended to release this, so think of this project as a boilerplate to get you started.


## Roadmap
Currently, the initial database was created *before* the decision to release this was made - so this is somewhat incomplete. Address organization already works the way it should ..  but these features are planned:

- [] Additional comments
- [x] Data extraction for `pcbis.de`
- [x] Tutorial on downloading invoices from `pcbis.de`
- [] Diffing CSV files from employees, adding changes automagically
- [] More modular setup (rules about converting phone numbers, cities, wrong categories ..)

:copyright: Fundevogel Kinder- und Jugendbuchhandlung
